This next tape is an interview with Charlie Brown, the founder, editor, and
publisher of Locus magazine. It took place in the early 1980s.
Okay, the tapes were on, very informal, all that good stuff. We want to explore
first of all how Locus got started. So how did you start it and how has it
grown and evolved? Well I started Lucas in 1968.
One of the main reasons I started was because I wanted to be able to learn how
to write. I was as a full time fan and I could never think to write anybody a
letter. So I decided if I had myself a deadline at that time was every two
weeks, I would get some experience with writing, I'd be able to write letters
and things like that. Well, it's 15 years later, I still can't write letters. I
still put out the magazine. It's mainly involved from being about fandoms. It
was done every other weekend. It was written on Friday, stenciled on Saturday,
run-off and mailed on Sunday. There was always every other weekend with a gang
of people in the house helping out, things like that. And it just kept
thrilling. The one thing about a magazine is that if you keep putting out
issues, you get more and more news. And gradually it changed more towards the
professional side, mainly because that's where my interests were. And they were
the people who responded more often than that. And eventually it grew to a point
where I couldn't print it anymore. We went to professional printing and it's
been growing ever since. And it's about the length of a short novel now. It
started out as just one page. That's how it grew.
Did you ever in your wildest dreams imagine that it would get as big circulation
wise and production wise as it is? Well, no. It originally started out to only
run for two years. uh the one of the other things that started out was this was
a very uh an advertisement for the boston group you're getting for a world time
i just wrote the original and the boston group put it out but that didn't work
very well at the end of two years they didn't win the convention i think mainly
because of locus but then we discovered that we were uh being nominated for
the Hugo. It seemed like it'd be interesting to run it right through the Boston
Convention to try and win a Hugo, which we did, and after that we just never
stopped. But I never imagined it would grow that much. Who did the name come
from? The name came from various points, various things. A locus is the
connecting points in a circle. And we considered ourselves connecting points to
the science fiction professionals, fans and publishers. And the other thing was
just from the old Spanish phrase of L.O.A., the letter of conference. that's why
the letter column is so called LOCUS with a capital LLC
Okay I didn't know that. You got something new You started out as a fan so you
were obviously involved in a fan organization now how did you get interested in
science fiction in the first place? Oh, I started reading Science II's, I was
reading Astounding in the 40's and discovered fandom all around 1949 by finding
a convention listed in the, one of the magazine they call Super Science Stories
or something like that. I went to the 1950 convention. I was 12 years old and I
went to this convention. Had a wonderful time and I met all these old men like
Fred Cole and Lextardale Ray. They were old. Most of them were pushing thirty.
And when you're twelve you don't think anybody's ever going to reach thirty.
That's really up there and now it's frightening because I see all these people
and the considered the same age pretty much,
but that was how I discovered fandom, and I put out my first fantasy in about
1951,
dropped out again when I was in college, things like that. I actually went back
to it, late 50s. Next. How has fandom changed since those days? Well, there were
women around, that helped. 1950 there were all these temporary 13 year old kids
and that was about it. I was talking to Harlan Ellison today, he just said, the
one thing, he just came back from Australia, he was guest with my free and
French.
You were on Locus Poll, the results lately seem to be showing that science
fiction fans, at least the ones that answer polls, are getting older. does this
indicate some kind of trend, do you think, in the people that read science
fiction? Uh, I don't know. Our audience is always gotten older, mainly because
the audience has stayed with us. About 80% of the people who read Locus in 1968
still read Locus. Which, of course, keeps raising the ages. where some new
people, but not that many.
One of the changes, of course, is in the magazine. The magazine is no longer
aimed at teenage fans. It's aimed at the professionals. Of course, you need to
attract the older professionals. I think there are probably no more than two or
three professionals were not a people out of this movie.
Oh. I don't know what you mean by a sense of responsibility.
I'm doing for a living what I used to do for nothing. That's about it.
I spent 15 years in Electrical Engineering. Designing Power Plants and things
like that.
I was a full time engineer up until uh six or seven years ago.
So you finally got the uh the wherewithal that it takes to to jump out and just
do this for uh full time then? Well we never done it full time, what happened
was uh There was a, uh... Uh... A strong... There was a break in the engineering
field by 1975. And I got laid off for the first time in my life. And I figured
while I was waiting for the field to pick up again, I would try writing for the
year. And so I did. I wrote... Oh, I wrote mostly non-fiction articles for
magazines. I had to focus on the side and try to, you know, build it up as much
as possible. And eventually I discovered I didn't even have to go back to work.
Every once in a while I get a call for an engineering job, I feel very good
about that but I have no intention to ever go back to it. Have you ever had any
aspirations or tried to write science fiction? Not fiction. No. I've never had
any interest in writing fiction. I've written a lot of nonfiction. I've written
lots of technical books, but that's about it. Now that you edit Locus full time
and it is a science fiction magazine, do you get to actually read science
fiction very much? Oh yeah! I've read- uh, probably I've read half of the novels
that are coming here out next tour.
I read a lot of science fiction. I read a lot more mysteries but I read a lot of
science fiction too.
Yeah it doesn't really bother me at all. In fact it helped. I assume you're
talking about Science Fishing Chronicle on Angli's Border, as soon as he started
my speculation has gone way up. And he's interested in more people in the field.
K. What, I assume that you still get a kick out of producing locus. There's
something that just makes you want to keep doing it, besides that it makes your
living right now? Oh sure. I was looking at the blue lines for the new issue
today and it's very exciting. The first time you see it come together and you
see all the photographs together and all the stories in one place instead of
pieces.
And you've still got a real thrill when you I'll get my final copy tomorrow.
I'll be down at the printer at 8.30 in the morning, watching the came run off.
I'll pull out a copy myself and staple it together and then I'll have another
copy.
In your editorial, you generally acknowledge the help of people that help mail
it or collate it or whatever. could you give us kind of a typical day where that
takes place? It sounds like you have a big party and put locus together and
get it out. Oh, yeah, we do have a party. The people come over to toll the
locus. Well, it's not toll the locus. It's nailing them. And we get the
issue back from the printer in the afternoon, and one or two people may show up
and help us put stamps on first-class copies. And then a larger crowd comes in
the evening. and you see, everybody gets to eat dinner and sits around and
drinks, and puts out, you know the uh, put all the labels on our face and put
them in alphabetical order, and chronological order by zip code and they're
sacked up and usually we finish by about 10-30 or 11, everybody sits around and
talks about science fiction here. very few of the people which you would all
fans. They're almost all writers. In fact, he had a contest last year for best
first novel by a Locus co-leader. And he did have three nominees. And as far as
I can tell, probably about 90% of the Locus co-leaders have written at least
one novel.
Do you have any... Not a fan gathering, much professional.
Do you have any plans for Locus, things you'd like to do in the future, expand
it, new areas, whatever? Actually, I'd like to do the opposite. I do not want to
expand the magazine at all. It will expand anyway, it always does. But I have no
interest in doing a bigger magazine. In fact, I find the magazine too big now
and circulation too large. I really want to do a magazine for a limited number
of people, where I can do it all myself at home. I'm very frightened about
getting to the point where I need a large staff and an office and things like
that. Everything's done at home right now. Some of the changes are always forced
on us because there's more news that we feel we have to cover. As you've
probably noticed, we're doing a lot more international coverage lately, covering
the Soviet Union and European Conventions, and we've had some articles on
Chinese science fiction. And I'm off to China next week for a tour, and I'll be
at the University of Shanghai Discussion Center in fiction there.
Locus has won countless awards. Does one become blasé about these awards? Two,
Three, Four, Five, Six, Seven. Seven is almost countless. Do you get blasé about
that, oh it's just another award? ...I don't know what you're doing in college,
but I don't get tired of winning that. It's a lot of fun.
There's been complaints, but they don't bother you too much. I solved the
problems with complaints that Send Rachel up to pick them up every year.
But I won't say anything, as long as people vote to Locus, I'll gladly accept
to you, though.
It's well deserved. I don't think anybody realistically, other than competitors,
are gonna complain. No, I think it's more of a team effort than it was before. I
could not put it out without people helping. And they appreciate that, too.
The one change that will be happening with Locus, unfortunately, is the one
that seems to happen every year, which is the price goes down. One of the things
we do is, of course, we all need that. Pages when we raise the price. But the
problem with all presses is that they're expensive to do.
The engineer asked me to ask you when we were talking about fandom a while ago
if you have any favorite fandom stories that you could relate to, something
that's funny or whatever that sticks in your mind from those days? Oh, I have
thousands of them, but I don't know what, you know, what's appropriate because
most of them are tied in to the fandom of 1950s. My kind of period was, uh, all
about 1950 to 56. Uh, and, uh, I don't know, uh, you know, knowing Harley
Allison when he was 15, and, uh, still my buddy was 15, we were all, uh, in this
together then. What I find interesting is that, uh, I've known these people now
for more than 30 years, more than I've known my family. Oh no. I've been in
closer contact with the flying fiction world in 1950 than I had with my
relatives.
Funny stories? I dunno.
No, I can't really think of a funny story.
Okay, you have to ask, has Locust generated any letters of note through the years?
You must get some crackpot or oddball letters.
Oh, you know, you crackpot letters all the time and really strange letters and they usually throw them out.okay gave us two years
For years, they collected all these really far
out letters, waiting to publish them on a final issue, but it doesn't look like
there will be a final issue of Locus. So there's no reason to keeping them
around anymore.
We don't get that much mail on Locus. It's mostly information and complaints,
but basically, Especially straight information. Very few letters of praise,
except for our 15th anniversary, it actually wrote to all of the people who
were subscribers and originators. Almost all of them were professional writers.
And it was very nice getting back the first letter from Robert Heinlein and the
second letter from Isaac Asimov and people like that. to all our fans and
really appreciate what we're doing.
I'll give you a tidbit, from the back of the current issues focus, but the next
issue focus, For those interested, Robert Heinlein just finished a new novel and
turned it in, and passed the novel. And that will do out for, probably, next
spring. You must have an interesting pipeline to the
publishers. It seems to me I've heard apocryphal stories that authors said that
they read about their new book being published in Locus. Well, it's not
apocryphal. That happens fairly often. Yeah. How is that arrangement? It's a
material before they're sent out to publishers to the authors. Uh, it's just
that we're in close contact with all the publishers.
ok um we will take the show and cut it up and we'll probably do the taping in
September and we'll send you a copy of it ok so we do appreciate getting to talk
to you ok ok just a second ok ok yeah listen thanks a lot enjoy the port Thank
you.